Tutorials (#2120)
grafana/agent: docs/flow/tutorials/filtering-metrics.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/tutorials/filtering-metrics
title: Filtering metrics
weight: 300
---

> The goal of this tutorial is to add a new component [prometheus.relabel]({{< ref "prometheus.relabel.md" >}}) using [relabel.flow](../assets/flow_configs/relabel.flow) that allows the filtering of metrics. This uses the same base as [Collecting Prometheus Metrics]({{< relref "./collecting-prometheus-metrics.md">}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll add a new component [prometheus.relabel]({{< ref "prometheus.relabel.md" >}}) using [relabel.flow](../assets/flow_configs/relabel.flow) to filter metrics. This tutorial uses the same base as [Collecting Prometheus metrics]({{< relref "./collecting-prometheus-metrics.md">}}).
```

# Prerequisites

* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
* Clone the [Agent Repository](https://github.com/grafana/agent) `git clone git@github.com:grafana/agent.git`

> # Prometheus Relabel Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Prometheus Relabel component
```

> The `prometheus.relabel` component is used to drop, add or filter metrics.  To quickly spin up an example environment run the following: `docker-compose -f ./assets/adding-new-component.yaml up` from the tutorials directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `prometheus.relabel` component is used to drop, add, or filter metrics.  To quickly spin up an example environment, run the following: `docker-compose -f ./assets/adding-new-component.yaml up` from the `tutorials` directory.
```

> Wait two minutes to ensure the scrape has been completed then visit the [Grafana](http://localhost:3000/explore?orgId=1&left=%5B%22now-1h%22,%22now%22,%22Cortex%22,%7B%22refId%22:%22A%22,%22instant%22:true,%22range%22:true,%22exemplar%22:false,%22expr%22:%22rate(process_cpu_seconds_total%5B5m%5D)%22%7D%5D) page and the `cool_label` will be there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wait two minutes to ensure the scrape is complete, then visit the [Grafana](http://localhost:3000/explore?orgId=1&left=%5B%22now-1h%22,%22now%22,%22Cortex%22,%7B%22refId%22:%22A%22,%22instant%22:true,%22range%22:true,%22exemplar%22:false,%22expr%22:%22rate(process_cpu_seconds_total%5B5m%5D)%22%7D%5D) page and the `cool_label` will be there.
```

Reviewer: You might want to say something like "Notice that the component is now labeled `cool-label`."

![](../assets/filter.png)

> # What's Happening

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# What's happening?
```
